# Lilly Technical Challenge Documentation Template

## Approach
*When I first started this project, after reading through the requirements and understanding what I needed to do, I drew up a rough sketch on how I wanted the final front end of the website to look like. To refamiliarize myself with full stack development I briefly read through a few websites including Frontend vs Backend - GeeksforGeeks and How to Add JavaScript in HTML Document? - GeeksforGeeks.  As inspiration for the layout of the website, I used a similar colour scheme as used in Lilly’s official website to look professional, using a light blue for the buttons and accents of red. I did the objectives in the order they were given as I felt this was the right approach. Ensuring that the data can be sent from the backend to the frontend was the primary objective of this task so it is what I started first.
Once the frontend could receive data from the backend, the next task was to handle missing or invalid data to stop the website from crashing. In the data.json file there was some medicine names left empty and prices set as null, which would cause a display error. To fix this I used conditional  checks in script.js to replace missing names with ‘unknown name’ and prices set as null to ‘Not Available’. Once I implemented this my next goal was to make the design of the front end more visually appealing. I did this by first displaying each medicine in a grid based card layout instead of a simple list. Then I added a floating ‘add medicine’ button that causes a pop up[ form to appear. These features will be further discussed below.
*

## Objectives - Innovative Solutions
*Initially I started this project by completing the objectives step by step, however as I progressed, I came across potential problems that needed me to rethink my approach.
Firstly, to solve the problem of missing values in the data.json file, I initially modified the backend to provide default values if data was missing. However, after doing this, I realised this wasn’t the best approach as if new data is added in the future through the frontend, the backend changes may cause inconsistencies. Instead, I updated the script.js file to instead replace the empty names with ‘Unknown Name’ and prices set as null with ‘Not Available’. 
The next feature I added was making an ‘add Medicine’ feature. Initially the form was displayed at the bottom of the page and was permanently there, however after consideration I felt as though the User Interface was too cluttered as the form would take up too much space. To resolve this issue, I created a floating ‘Add Medicine’ button that when clicked, a pop-up form would appear. This allowed the website to look clean and simple, to close this pop up you would simply press on the same button. The ‘Add Medicine’ form allowed users to add a new medicine along with its price. After pressing submit, a new medicine card would appear in the page. 
I also created a display to show the average price of all the medications shown. As asked to do. The backend reads all medicine prices from the data.json file and filters out any null values. The total sum of the prices is divided by the number of medicines to calculate the average. The front end then fetches this value and displays it.
Furthermore, I also added a search bar feature. Here the user could search for any of the medications displayed in the front end. This allows them to quickly find a specific medicine they are looking for without having to scroll through the entire list. Furthermore, the list is dynamically updated based on what the user inputs in the search bar allowing the page to be more user friendly.
Finally, as some finishing touches, I added media queries to dynamically adjust the font size based on the screen width whilst also ensuring the resizing does not block any other content. I also noticed that the ‘Add medicine’ button would cover the last medicine displayed when the screen width was reduced. I solved this problem by reducing the size of the button on smaller screens and when the user scrolls right to the bottom, the button moves out of the wat and sits below the last card.
*


## Evaluation
*This task was a great chance for me to refamiliarize myself with full-stack development. Most of the objectives were fairly straightforward, however there were others that required multiple iterations before I got it right, especially to do with responsiveness. By the time this project was completed I was successfully able to integrate the API, add a search bar and an ‘add medicine’ feature which would dynamically update, as well as being able to create a frontend that is responsive to different screen sizes. If I was able to give more time to this project, I would add additional features such as stock management and further enhance the user interface to include animations and transitions to further enhance the user experience. Overall, this challenge was a great learning experience for me and thoroughly enjoyed working on it.*
